The most important thing about compiling: If it didn't work, *you* screwed up.

How to compile in 4 easy steps:

1) Make sure you have stlport installed and that it's included _before_ the standard vc directories
   Use the one supplied on the dc++ sourceforge page (do not use the one from www.stlport.org unless 
   you know what you're doing, I've modified it a little bit). Mind the version (download the latest
   one from the source extras).
   
   * Note; This step may not be required, i e it might work without STLPort,
     but I don't recommend this as it's completely untested, and is not being actively maintained.
     See client\config.h for further details.

2) Make sure you've downloaded the latest package and have all the files in it in your include path.
   You can find it on the dc++ sourceforge site. Mind the version.  Make sure it's listed after
   stlport in your directory includes, but before the rest of the ms include dirs.
   
3) You most probably have to update your Platform SDK, http://msdn.microsoft.com will tell you how.
   You have to do this if you get an error that "natupnp.h" is missing. Since all you need is this
   one file, you can ask someone at the dev hub to supply it for you (or look for it in the DC++
   bugzilla, it's attached to one of the bugs)

4) Open the solution and press your build button. If you find your executable unreasonably large, you
   probably compiled in debug mode - switch to release once you're done testing the code.

Note 1;	I now use vc7.1 (2003). I don't care particularily if you use an older MS compiler (6.0, 7.0),
	because these don't even come close to supporting the c++ standard. If you want to try anyway,
	you're on your own.  You will need a new Platform SDK if you're using VS 6.0.
	That said, the client part usually compiles fine with g++ 3.x, although there's a bug in 3.3
	(and perhaps other versions) that prevents a few files from being compiled. Wait for 3.4 to
	become mature for release, it's fixed there. 

Note 2;	You'll need DBGHELP.dll from the binary distribution unless you're using WinXP, otherwise 
        you'll get errors saying symbols are missing when running your compiled executable. My copy 
        says version 5.1.2600.1106 right now.

Note 3;	If you have problems, read the forum posts before posting. Somebody else has probably made your 
	mistake already. The word to note in the last sentence is 'your', so let me articulate a bit more,
	it works on my computer, so it's yours that is not correctly set up.

By the way, with doxygen, graphviz and some luck you can use the supplied doxygen configuration file
to generate some nice docs...just check that the paths in doxyfile are correct (graphviz)...

Linux / Unix:
I've made some rudimentary autoconf/automake scripts now, so you can compile the client part into a library
without too much hassle (I don't check if it compiles very often though...). You'll need the latest versions
of automake and autoconf, and after getting the source (from CVS is easiest), do 
"aclocal && automake && autoconf && configure && make" and you'll have the client part nicely compiled.
When / if I test it I do it on a Gentoo AMD64 box with the latest gcc in 64-bit mode, so I don't have a clue
if the 32-bit compile works...

Submitting patches

If you think you've done something that more people could use, you can always submit a patch for inclusion in the
original distribution. I will then consider whether I like the patch or not based on things that might seem to be 
completely random, which just might be the case. Popular reasons for rejecting a patch include, but are not limited to,
ugly code, abusable features, feature that I don't like that bloat the applications and incompatibility with other 
modifications I've already done. 
To increase the chances of your patch being accepted, mail them to me (j_s@telia.com) as diffs against the latest 
code you can find (for the moment, it should be the cvs repository on sourceforge, but sometimes I forget to 
update it, so check the source code distribution of the latest release as well...). You can find a lot of 
information about diff and patch by googling for it. I like unified format (diff -uNr). 
By submitting a patch, you agree to that I get copyright of it. This to avoid stupid situations later on where
the copyright is split out over a million people, each of which could stop further distribution of DC++. If you don't
like this, start your own distribution, if you're lucky it might become more popular than the original =).